1.Explain three dimensional data indexing ?
Ans.Array indexing and slicing are important parts in data analsis and many different types
of mathematical operations.we always do not work with a whole array or matrix or data frame
Semantic queries on indexed objects allow the reuse of the 3D scenes.The continous evolution
of computing capabilities of desktop.computer is also a factor that facilitates the large 
deployement of 3D information contents .the construction of a 3D Scene is a complex and time
consuming task.thus being able to reuse the 3D scenes is a very important issue for the
multimedia.

2.what's the difference betweeen a series and a data frame?
Ans.series is a type of list which can take integer values,string values,double value and more.
series can only contain single list with index,whereas data frame can be made of more than one
series or we can say that a data frames is a collection of series that can be used to analyse
the data.

3.What role does pandas play in data cleaning?
Ans.over time companies produce and collect a massive amount of data,depending on the company
this can come in many different forms such as user generated content,job applicant data,blog
posts,sensor data and payrall transactions.Due to the immense number of source systems that can
generate data and the number of people that contribute to data generation we can never guarante
that the data we are receiving is a clean record.These records may be incomplete due to missing
attributes.They may have an incorrect spelling for user.entered text fields or they may have an
incorrect value such as a date of birth in the future.
In order to get an understanding of which aspects of the data set need cleaning we first need to
see what data we are dealing with .The best way to do this is .info()and .describe()
pandas offers a diverge range of built in functions that can be used to clean and manipulate data
sets prior to analysis.It can allow you to drop incomplete rows and columns,fill missing values and
improve the readability of the data set through category renaming.

4.How do you use pandas to make a data frame out of n-dimensional array?
Ans.pandas is a data manipulation module data frame let you store tabular data in python.The data
frame lets you easily store and manipulate tabular data like rows and columns.
A data frame can be created from a list,or a dictionary or numpy array.
since a data frame can be considered as a two dimensional data structure ,we can use a two dimensional
numpy array to create a data frame.A is two dimensional array with 4 rows and 3 columns we can pass it
to the dta frame function.pandas assigns integer index for columns by default.

5.Explain the notion of pandas ploting?
Plotting
Pandas uses the plot() method to create diagrams.

We can use Pyplot, a submodule of the Matplotlib library to visualize the diagram on the screen.

Read more about Matplotlib in our Matplotlib Tutorial.

Example
Import pyplot from Matplotlib and visualize our DataFrame:

import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

df = pd.read_csv('data.csv')

df.plot()

plt.show()
The examples in this page uses a CSV file called: 'data.csv'.

Download data.csv or Open data.csv

Scatter Plot
Specify that you want a scatter plot with the kind argument:

kind = 'scatter'

A scatter plot needs an x- and a y-axis.

In the example below we will use "Duration" for the x-axis and "Calories" for the y-axis.

Include the x and y arguments like this:

x = 'Duration', y = 'Calories'

Example
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

df = pd.read_csv('data.csv')

df.plot(kind = 'scatter', x = 'Duration', y = 'Calories')

plt.show()
Result


Remember: In the previous example, we learned that the correlation between "Duration" and "Calories" was 0.922721, and we conluded with the fact that higher duration means more calories burned.

By looking at the scatterplot, I will agree.

Let's create another scatterplot, where there is a bad relationship between the columns, like "Duration" and "Maxpulse", with the correlation 0.009403:

Example
A scatterplot where there are no relationship between the columns:

import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

df = pd.read_csv('data.csv')

df.plot(kind = 'scatter', x = 'Duration', y = 'Maxpulse')

plt.show()
Result


w
3
s
c
h
o
o
l
s
C
E
R
T
I
F
I
E
D
.
2
0
2
1
Get Certified!
Complete the Pandas modules, do the exercises, take the exam, and you will become w3schools certified!

Histogram
Use the kind argument to specify that you want a histogram:

kind = 'hist'

A histogram needs only one column.

A histogram shows us the frequency of each interval, e.g. how many workouts lasted between 50 and 60 minutes?

In the example below we will use the "Duration" column to create the histogram:

Example
df["Duration"].plot(kind = 'hist')
Result



